The shoulder is a ball and socket joint.
The ball is at the top of the arm bone, or humerus.
The socket is within the shoulder blade, or scapula.
Total shoulder replacement surgery can be effective
at relieving severe pain from arthritis of the shoulder.
TSR replaces the damaged parts of the shoulder joint
with plastic and metal components.
To begin, your surgeon will make an incision
on the front of your shoulder.
Your surgeon will remove the damaged bone and cartilage
at the end of the humerus.
Your surgeon then smooths and reshapes
the socket portion of the shoulder blade.
A plastic socket component is placed
with bone cement in the prepared socket.
A metal stem is implanted in the center of your humerus.
A metal ball is attached to the stem.
The new ball portion of the humerus is
inserted into the socket part of the shoulder.
To finish the procedure,
your surgeon will close the incision with stitches
and cover it with a soft dressing.
Following surgery, you will wear an arm sling
and be prescribed physical therapy.
Your surgeon will explain what you can expect.
Like all surgeries, risks and complications are possible.
Your surgeon will explain these to you.